+++
title = "A Climate Rant"
author = ["Christian Elliott"]
date = 2023-01-03T00:00:00-06:00
lastmod = 2023-01-03T00:00:00-06:00
draft = false
+++

The holidays have come and gone. I am nearing overdue for my next post, so here
we go.

Recently I have wanted to write about my growing sense of dread, particularly as
it relates to the climate crisis. Unfortunately, it's not a very fun topic, and
I have struggled to produce words that I feel adequately represent my thoughts
and feelings, so the going has been rough.

While I don't know how to truly express my feelings, I do know some things: I
know that concerns about the state of the environment continue to dominate my
thoughts. I know that I'm not _always_ concerned, but am reminded of my concerns
daily. Recently the weather has been rambunctious, swinging from a ten-below
windchill to 69 degrees Fahrenheit in something like 36 hours. While I have seen
my fair share of crazy midwest weather, this example and others like it have me
on edge.

What has been tengentially bothering me is my family's, friend's, and peer's
general lack of motivation or concern about our changing climate. Some have
concern, and some don't. Even the ones that do seem to sometimes just ¯\\_(ツ)\_/¯
when I bring it up. **Why do so few seem to truly understand that everything we
do _today_ does not matter if there is no _tomorrow_?** If we let our world
continue to die, not only will biological life be affected, but everything about
our existence. Rapidly, the crisis will begin to change things so much that a
power struggle will ensue, and life will never be the same for anyone after that
moment.

Positively, what I am saying is that I do believe our climate catastrophe will
bring about the end of human society -- and startlingly soon -- if we continue to
do nothing. I understand that many readers may recoil at that stance, and think
I am a doomsayer. If the shoe fits, I suppose. We seem to think our world can
continue in its consumptive and capitalistic manner and the issue will just go
away if we eat enough Impossible Meat or subsidize some solar farms. Or perhaps
just too many people don't care, and see no point in caring. Whatever the
reason, my greatest growing fear is that our want to bury our collective heads
in the sand will delay real action until it is far too late.

As I've been writing this, I have several times created a section to discuss
something like "What can I/we do?", and every time, I find myself running out of
gas. Sure, there are things I could probably do to minimize my carbon footprint
a little more. But the reality is that this strategy probably just won't work.
It's not _my_ carbon footprint that is the problem. It's industrial scale
production, in just about any line of work, that is the cause. _We_,
collectively as consumers and as propagators of the polluters, contribute to the
crisis each and every day, and frankly I don't think many of us want to stop
enough to actually have an impact.

And this is where my sad and somber post will end. I have drug my feet on
writing this because I want to wrap my sour content in something sweet. I wanted
to work my way toward some kind of hopeful conclusion. That, however, would be
contrary to the mission of my own blog -- to remaining as authentic as possible.
These are my feelings, and I need to try to share them as truly and honestly as
I can.

I hope to come back to this topic in the future when I've had more time to
consider what things I _can_ do to ensure tomorrow remains.

Cheers, lol.
